# Railslove Deploy


The Railslove deploy gem to setup a full ruby server stack. Includes Sprinkle setup scripts and Capistrano deployment recipes.


## Contact

There is no nice documentation or readme file yet but if you have any problems questions feel free to contact me anytime:

michael@railslove.com
skype:derbumi.de
irc: derbumi on freenode
titter: @bumi


## Idea

The Railslove_deploy gem provides some sprinkle and capistrano recipes to setup a full server stack and deploy your application. It tries to be as configurable as possible by providing a configurable collection of recipies simple recipes.

## How to get you going


### 1. deployify

Run the deployify command in your application root directory to generate all the deployment files
    
    bumi:~/development/rails_apps/stuff/deploy_demo 
    → deployify .
    [Deployment files created]
    
This generates the default capistrano files (Capfile and config/deploy.rb) and a config/server directory containing the server configuration files:

* backup.rb - example safe (http://github.com/astrails/safe) backup file
* policy.rb - the sprinkle policy for your server
* vhost.erb - the template to generate your apache vhost config file
* ferm.conf.erb  - the ferm (http://ferm.foo-projects.org/) to configure IP tables

### 2. Adjust your config/deploy.rb file

Adjust the deploy file for your needs. Enter the IPs of your Server, configure your callbacks, etc.

### 3. Adjust your config/server/policy.rb file 

The policy file describes how your server should look like. Here you can configure the packages you want to install. 

The default policy installs the following:
    
    policy :passenger_stack, :roles => :app do
      requires :webserver         # Apache
      requires :database          # MySQL or SQLite

      # memcached
      requires :memcached_daemon  # Memcached
      requires :libmemcached      # libmemcached
      requires :memcached_conf    # memcached-user, init.d config 

      requires :scm               # Git or SVN
      requires :ruby              # Ruby Enterprise
      requires :searchengine      # Sphinx
      requires :appserver         # passenger
      requires :rails_user        # special rails user with sudo rights
      requires :database_driver   # Ruby database driver
      requires :usefull_gems      # usefull, frequently needed gems
      requires :image_magick      # image magick
      requires :ferm              # ferm iptable configuration tool
      requires :ferm_conf         # configure ferm (allow http, https and ssh)
      requires :monit             # monit - system process monitoring
      requires :munin_node        # install munin-node for system monitoring
      requires :munin_apache_status # configure extended apache status information
    end
    
### 4. use the sprinkle command to run your policy and setup your server

    sprinkle - s config/server/policy.rb

Now sprinkle parses your policy and load the recipes and installs it on the server. After that you're server is ready to deploy. 

### 5. cap deploy:setup
### 6. cap deploy:cold

You're done. :D



## Issues

* Sprinkle does not have any rollback function if something fails.